---
layout: thought
title: "On the duality of being: Heaviness & Lightness"
date: 2025-10-28
categories: [thought]
---

I suppose I should start by explaining what is so blatantly apparent in my mind but might not be so to others.
What strikes met every so often in life is the heaviness of being. The mind can make something so simple feel
overwhelming, and for no clear reason.

Taking an outsiders view leads to the opposite perspective. What effect does the average person have on the world? 
A negligible one. These jutxaposed perspectives form the duality of our being. Life - at times light as a feather,
and at other times as heavu as the load Atlas bears. How does one explain these opposing forces that act on the psyche?

Are both the reason that humans are addicted to all kinds of escape? Are they the reason that <b>being</b>, just 
<b>being</b> present is the goal of a lifetime for so many?

Sometimes I wish I had the answers, sometimes I enjoy the search. Now, after a moment of heaviness that struck like lightning
during a clear blue sky, the only thing that is clear, is the fact that this duality exists. 

I suppose it all is a matter of perspective on this lightness and heaviness. It all depends on how you <b>act</b> upon your
thoughts. Is life meaningless? Are we just tiny, insignificant beings? Why not make the most of it> So that, at a minimum you
have done more good than bad at the end of the ride.
Is life wrought with meaning? Why not make the most of it? Use that to propel yourself into action. Use that to bring about 
change and improvement. Wear the weight proudly.
